---
layout: post
title: What affects Shooting Percentage of NBA Players?
image: /img/ball-1693755_1280.png
bigimg: /img/basketball_court.jpg"
---
  
## A dive into how FG% changes based on location, shot clock, month and other factors

### A DataScience blog


### Introduction

As an avid basketball fan, specifically the National Basketball Association (NBA), I often find myself plopped in front of a TV paying close attention to the details of the game. There are a lot of things that catch my eye, but one in particular is the box score, or the stat sheet.A major component of the stat sheet is a team's shooting percentage (fied goal %). A team or player's field goal percentage (FG%) can be measured by taking the number of shots made divided by the total number of shots. Again, this can be measured for a team, or for a specific player. 

Generally, you would be inclined to think that the team with the higher FG% should win the game. And in most games, I would argue that is the case. However there are other factors that would play into the outcome of the game besides how well a team shoots from the field (i.e. free throws, turnovers, etc.) But I won't bore you with those details right now..

But what we do know is that FG% is a MAJOR factor. After all, the goal is to score more points than the other team, and FG% is a direct measure of scoring. And as I watch these NBA games, I become curious. Over the course of a season, what factors, if any at all, significantly affect the shooting percentage of players?

- Would players competing on their home court shoot a higher percentage than those competing on the road?
- Does the type of shot alter the shooting percentage?
- Is there a particular month that players make shots at a higher rate?

Below I will investigate these questions and more. Stay with me, because I think you will find the results interesting!
